W 12430553 logging combine third party gr (#196)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.4/modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/task-config-logs-third-party.adoc

//tag::intro1[]

> Anypoint Flex Gateway enables you to deliver runtime and access logs to any supported Fluent Bit {fluentbit-ver-var} output type. You configure log output via a custom YAML file. Additionally, to view access logs, you must also apply a Message Logging policy.

Reviewer: should the bit inside {} be in monospace font?

Reviewer 2: Hanna, this is populated by an antora var.

> The following configuration file examples demonstrates how to direct Flex Gateway logs to output types: `File`, `HTTP`, and `Splunk`. However, you can use any Fluent Bit {fluentbit-ver-var} output type, such as `Azure Log Analytics`, `Amazon S3`, `Kafka`, and more. For a complete list of Fluent Bit output types, see https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/v/1.8/pipeline/outputs[Fluent Bit Outputs documentation^]. 

Reviewer 2: We should remove links to the versioned Fluent Bit documentation. It presents a maintenance issue for us when we support a new version of Fluent Bit. Can we link instead to the Fluent Bit homepage? Or do we need the link at all?

Reviewer: You could put it in the See Also list.

> The following configuration file examples demonstrates how to direct Flex Gateway logs to output types: `File`, `HTTP`, and `Splunk`. However, you can use any Fluent Bit {fluentbit-ver-var} output type, such as `Azure Log Analytics`, `Amazon S3`, `Kafka`, and more. For a complete list of Fluent Bit output types, see https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/v/1.8/pipeline/outputs[Fluent Bit Outputs documentation^]. 

Reviewer: subject-verb agreement.
examples demonstrate

> The following configuration file examples demonstrates how to direct Flex Gateway logs to output types: `File`, `HTTP`, and `Splunk`. However, you can use any Fluent Bit {fluentbit-ver-var} output type, such as `Azure Log Analytics`, `Amazon S3`, `Kafka`, and more. For a complete list of Fluent Bit output types, see https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/v/1.8/pipeline/outputs[Fluent Bit Outputs documentation^]. 

Reviewer 3: Is it possible to use the `{fluentbit-ver-var}` in the link as well? To prevent a mistake when we update fluent bit version
```suggestion
The following configuration file examples demonstrates how to direct Flex Gateway logs to output types: `File`, `HTTP`, and `Splunk`. However, you can use any Fluent Bit {fluentbit-ver-var} output type, such as `Azure Log Analytics`, `Amazon S3`, `Kafka`, and more. For a complete list of Fluent Bit output types, see https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/v/{fluentbit-ver-var}/pipeline/outputs[Fluent Bit Outputs documentation^]. 
```

Reviewer 2: Hi @seblaz,

The variable resolves as:
`v1.8.11`

Which will result in a broken link. 

My earlier suggestion was to simply link to the Fluent Bit homepage, or remove the link entirely.

//end::intro1[]

//tag::intro2-conn[]

> As well as being able to configure additional Fluent Bit log output types, Flex Gateway maintains standard output in API Manager. Use the standard output logs for quick log checks where an additional log output is not needed. To view the standard output logs, see *Anypoint Platform > API Manager > Logs*. For access logs to be visible in *Logs*, you must additionally apply a Message Logging policy.

Reviewer: is Flex Gateway doing the output type configuration? Or is the user? If the former, then OK. If the latter, take another look at the first sentence.

Reviewer: "where" > "when"

https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-%22inwhich%22

Author: Flex does the configuration.

> As well as being able to configure additional Fluent Bit log output types, Flex Gateway maintains standard output in API Manager. Use the standard output logs for quick log checks where an additional log output is not needed. To view the standard output logs, see *Anypoint Platform > API Manager > Logs*. For access logs to be visible in *Logs*, you must additionally apply a Message Logging policy.

Reviewer 3: I think we shouldn't mention standard output here and just use "logs".  Although standard output will have a similar content that the logs in api manager, it's not the same 
```suggestion
As well as being able to configure additional Fluent Bit log output types, Flex Gateway sends logs to API Manager. Use the logs for quick checks where an additional log output is not needed. To view the logs, see *Anypoint Platform > API Manager > Logs*. For access logs to be visible in *Logs*, you must additionally apply a Message Logging policy.
```

//end::intro2-conn[]

//tag::intro2-local[]

> As well as being able to configure additional Fluent Bit log output types, Flex Gateway maintains standard output logs names `flex-gateway-fluent`. Use the standard output logs for quick log checks where an additional log output is not needed. To view the standard output logs, see xref:gateway::flex-local-view-logs[View Logs].

Reviewer: see comments on line 9.

Reviewer: I think this xref won't work because it's missing .adoc. Does it build?

Reviewer: Did you verify that the link works?

> As well as being able to configure additional Fluent Bit log output types, Flex Gateway maintains standard output logs names `flex-gateway-fluent`. Use the standard output logs for quick log checks where an additional log output is not needed. To view the standard output logs, see xref:gateway::flex-local-view-logs[View Logs].

Reviewer 3: Is there a reason to mention the `flex-gateway-fluent` logs and not the ones from `agent` or `envoy`?

* xref:flex-install.adoc[Install Flex Gateway]
* xref:flex-{page-mode}-reg-run.adoc[Register and Run Flex Gateway]

> Additionally, depending on your output, ensure the service where you are directing logs to is operational. For Splunk, you must configure:

Reviewer: I kind of want a "that" after ensure.

* A running https://www.splunk.com/[Splunk^] service. You can test Splunk by setting up a free Splunk Cloud trial.
* Added an HTTP Event Collector (HEC) data input to the Cloud or Enterprise Splunk service. See the https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.0.3/Data/UsetheHTTPEventCollector[Splunk documentation^] about how to add a data input, and how to create an HEC token.

//end::byb[]

//tag::runtime-access-logs[]

== Runtime Logs and Access Logs

> Runtime and access log both appear in the same log output. However, you can choose whether or not to include both logs in your log output. To use access logs, you must also apply a Message Logging policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Runtime and access logs both appear in the same log output. However, you can choose whether or not to include both logs in your log output. To use access logs, you must also apply a Message Logging policy.
```

=== Runtime Logs
Runtime logs include the following information:

* The startup and shutdown of Flex Gateway, Fluent Bit, and Envoy

> * What APIs and policies are deployed

Reviewer: The APIs and policies that are deployed
or
Deployed APIs and policies

Author: Much better

* Possible misconfigurations of Flex Gateway or other errors

> You can configure the runtime logs loglevel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure the runtime log level.
```
Not sure what "loglevel" is here.

=== Access Logs

> Access logs describe incoming interaction with Envoy over a period of time and incoming requests and response for specific APIs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access logs describe incoming interaction with Envoy over a period of time and incoming requests and responses for specific APIs. 
```

To enable access logging, you must: 

> . Configure a log output configuration file.

Reviewer 3: Actually, if a message logging policy is applied the runtime logs are seen in the standard output (and in anypoint in case of connected mode). The log output is required to send the logs to a third party log ingestor only

> . Apply a Message Logging policy the API instances you want to monitor. To apply a Message Logging policy, see <<configure-access-logs, Configuring Access Logs>>.

Reviewer 4: gotta be careful if we put links to anchors in a partial, though they are often useful. there are other examples of the same thing below.

> . Apply a Message Logging policy the API instances you want to monitor. To apply a Message Logging policy, see <<configure-access-logs, Configuring Access Logs>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply a Message Logging policy to the API instances to monitor. To apply a Message Logging policy, see <<configure-access-logs, Configuring Access Logs>>.
```

//end::runtime-access-logs[]

//tag::file-example[]

== Logging Configuration File

include::partial$logging-config-file.adoc[]

> To see configuration files with applied values, see the following configuration file examples:

Reviewer: see...see

Any way to use another verb? View?

+
[source,ssh]
----
sudo touch /usr/local/share/mulesoft/flex-gateway/conf.d/logs-config.yaml
----

> . Update the file with your desired output configuration details in the following sections:

Reviewer: is "in the following sections" where they do the updating? Or should this be something like "as shown in the following examples"?

Author: "as shown in the following examples" is great

> . Stop your Flex Gateway and any replicas, using Ctrl+C.

Reviewer: Is "your" necessary here (and anywhere)?

Reviewer: Press Ctrl+C to stop Flex....

. Create a folder in the directory with your Flex Gateway configuration files and name it `app`.

> . Restart your Flex Gateway with an additional volume for the new `app` directory:

Reviewer: There's a colon at the end, but I'm not seeing an image or sublist. Should it be a period?

Reviewer: Is line 117 a sublist? If so, use `..`

Reviewer: I built this and it doesn't like quite right. Can you retest?

> . Create and save a YAML file with your desired output configuration details in the following sections:

Reviewer: same comment as line 99.

+
* <<file-configuration-example, File Configuration Example>>
* <<http-configuration-example, HTTP Configuration Example>>
* <<splunk-configuration-example, Splunk Configuration Example>>
+
//end::docker[]
//tag::k8s[]

[[kubernetes-ingress-controller]]
== Configure Log Output for Flex Gateway as a Kubernetes Ingress Controller

To configure logging for Flex Gateway:

. Create a new resource using

> a YAML configuration file with your desired output configuration details in the following sections:

Reviewer: same comment as line 99.

+
* <<file-configuration-example, File Configuration Example>>
* <<http-configuration-example, HTTP Configuration Example>>
* <<splunk-configuration-example, Splunk Configuration Example>>
+
//end::k8s[]

//tag::view-logs-conn[]

> If no events appear in logging output, inspect the Flex Gateway `flex-gateway-fluent` standard output logs to determine if there are configuration errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no events appear in the logging output, check the Flex Gateway `flex-gateway-fluent` standard output logs for any configuration errors.
```

+

> To view `flex-gateway-fluent` standard output logs in API Manager, see *Anypoint Platform > API Manager > Logs*.

Reviewer: Is "see" the right word? What about "click"?

//end::view-logs-conn[]

//tag::view-logs-local[]

> If no events appear in logging output, inspect the Flex Gateway `flex-gateway-fluent` standard output logs to determine if there are configuration errors.

Reviewer: 141

+

> To view `flex-gateway-fluent` standard output logs, see xref:gateway::flex-local-view-logs.adoc[View Logs].

Reviewer: 143

//end::view-logs-local[]

//tag::configure-message-logging-step[]

> . Configure a message logging policy if configuring access log. To configure a message logging policy, see <<access-logs, Configure Access Logs>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you are configuring the access log, configure a message logging policy. To configure a message logging policy, see <<access-logs, Configure Access Logs>>.
```

Reviewer: Or remove the intro in the second sentence and just say "See..."

//end::configure-message-logging-step[]

//tag::file-configuration-example[]

[[file-configuration-example]]
== File Configuration Example

> Configure Flex Gateway to send formatted runtime and access logs to a file called `log.txt` (Fluent Bit `File` output), located within `/var/log` directory. As an example, the following definition specifies a `spec.logging.outputs.type` value of `file`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure Flex Gateway to send formatted runtime and access logs to a file called `log.txt` (Fluent Bit `File` output) in the `/var/log` directory. As an example, the following definition specifies a `spec.logging.outputs.type` value of `file`:
```

> NOTE: For Docker, in `spec.logging.output.parameters.file`, replace `/var/log` with the absolute path to the mounted configuration directory.

Reviewer: Does this note look the same as [NOTE]?

Author: Yup

----
apiVersion: gateway.mulesoft.com/v1alpha1
kind: Configuration
metadata:
  name: logging-config
spec:
  logging:
    outputs:
    - name: default
      type: file
      parameters:
        file: /var/log/log.txt # Docker: replace `/var/log` with the absolute path to the mounted configuration directory
        format: template
        template: |
          [{logger}][{level}][{kind}] {message}
    runtimeLogs:
      logLevel: info
      outputs:
      - default
    accessLogs:
      outputs:
      - default
----

//end::file-configuration-example[]

//tag::http-configuration-example[]

[[http-configuration-example]]
== HTTP Configuration Example

> In addition to configuring logging for Fluent Bit `File` output, you can also configure for Fluent Bit `HTTP` output. As an example, the following definition specifies a `spec.logging.outputs.type` value of `HTTP`:

Reviewer: Do you need the "In addition to..." phrase?

----
apiVersion: gateway.mulesoft.com/v1alpha1
kind: Configuration
metadata:
  name: logging-config
spec:
  logging:
    outputs:
    - name: default
      type: HTTP
      parameters:
        host: collectors.au.sumologic.com
        port: "443"
        URI: /receiver/v1/http/[PrivateKey]
        format: json_lines
        json_date_key: timestamp
        json_date_format: iso8601
    runtimeLogs:
      logLevel: info
      outputs:
      - default
    accessLogs:
      outputs:
      - default
----

//end::http-configuration-example[]

//tag::splunk-configuration-example[]

[[splunk-configuration-example]]
== Splunk Configuration Example

> Splunk begins ingesting logs soon after applying this resource. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splunk begins ingesting logs soon after you apply this resource. 
```

Reviewer: Is Splunk applying the resource or is the user?
